docs/portfolio/troubleshooting/ticketing_system/jira_setup.md, before:

# Jira Setup
A **ticketing system** is used to manage issues and requests from users in your organization.

**Jira** is a popular to platform to manage tickets. You can create a free-trial to start creating your own tickets.

![Try Jira Free](./assets/images/try_jira_free.png)

In Jira IT tickets are managed in an **IT service management** space. We can create a space using a template.

![Jira IT Service Management Template](./assets/images/jira_IT_service_management_template.png)

One we are here we can create an **incident** so IT can resolve our issue.

![Jira Example Ticket 1](./assets/images/jira_example_ticket1.png)

An incident is created when:
- A user **can't do their job**.
- Something **unexpected** is broken.
- A service is **not working** or **unresponsive**.

<br/>

![Jira Example Ticket 2](./assets/images/jira_example_ticket2.png)

**Summarize this problem** should clearly communicate the issue.

**Describe what happened and how it occurred** should be as specific as possible. It should also contain any alternative contact information if you are not available through email.

![Jira Example Ticket 3](./assets/images/jira_example_ticket3.png)

**How urgently does this need to be fixed?** should describe how fast action needs to be taken. **Critical** being immediately and **Low** being a minor inconvenience.

![Jira Urgency](./assets/images/jira_urgency.png)

**How big of an impact is the problem to you or the organization?** describes the amount of people affected. **Extensive** being the entire organization and **Minor** just being a single person.

![Jira Impact](./assets/images/jira_impact.png)

Depending on the urgency and impact, Jira will assign a priority to the ticket. The below matrix is what is typically used to assign priority.

![Urgency Impact Priority Matrix](./assets/images/urgency_impact_priority_matrix.png)

We can view open incidents in the Jira IT service management space.

![Jira Incidents Queue](./assets/images/jira_incidents_queue.png)

Here, we can assign ourselves tickets

![Jira Incidents Queue Open](./assets/images/jira_incidents_queue_open.png)

If we click on the ticket we can view the **SLA**. 

![SLA Jira](./assets/images/SLA_jira.png)

This tells us **how fast we should respond** to an open ticket and **how much time it should be resolved in**, depending on the priority.

Commit message:

Re-worded Jira project content.

docs/portfolio/troubleshooting/ticketing_system/jira_setup.md, after:

# Jira Setup
## Summary
A **ticketing system** is used to manage issues and requests from users in your organization.

We will setup a ticketing system for this project and create an example incident.


## Setup

**Jira** is a popular to platform to manage tickets. You can create a free-trial to start creating your own tickets.

![Try Jira Free](./assets/images/try_jira_free.png)

In Jira IT tickets are managed in an **IT service management** space. We can create a space using a template.

![Jira IT Service Management Template](./assets/images/jira_IT_service_management_template.png)

## Tickets

### Creation
Once the space is setup, we can create an **incident** so IT can resolve our issue.

The **Create** option is next to the search bar.

![Jira Create Ticket](./assets/images/jira_create_ticket.png)

We will create an **incident**.

![Jira Example Ticket 1](./assets/images/jira_example_ticket1.png)

An incident is created when:
- A user **can't do their job**.
- Something **unexpected** is broken.
- A service is **not working** or **unresponsive**.


### Form Information

**Summarize this problem** should clearly communicate the issue.

**Describe what happened and how it occurred** should be as specific as possible. It should also contain any alternative contact information if you are not available through email.

![Jira Example Ticket 2](./assets/images/jira_example_ticket2.png)

Then we should state state the proper **urgnecy** and **impact**.

![Jira Example Ticket 3](./assets/images/jira_example_ticket3.png)

**How urgently does this need to be fixed?** should describe how fast action needs to be taken. **Critical** being immediately and **Low** being a minor inconvenience.

![Jira Urgency](./assets/images/jira_urgency.png)

**How big of an impact is the problem to you or the organization?** describes the amount of people affected. **Extensive** being the entire organization and **Minor** just being a single person.

![Jira Impact](./assets/images/jira_impact.png)

Depending on the urgency and impact, Jira will assign a priority to the ticket. The below matrix is what's typically used to assign priority.

![Urgency Impact Priority Matrix](./assets/images/urgency_impact_priority_matrix.png)

We can view open incidents in the Jira IT service management space.

![Jira Incidents Queue](./assets/images/jira_incidents_queue.png)

Here, we can assign ourselves tickets.

![Jira Incidents Queue Open](./assets/images/jira_incidents_queue_open.png)

If we click on the ticket we can view the **SLA** or **Service Level Agreement**. 

![SLA Jira](./assets/images/SLA_jira.png)

This tells us **how fast we should respond** to an open ticket and **how much time it should be resolved in**, depending on the priority to ensure **customer satisfaction**.
